# Ansible inventory
* Ansible inventory is a file that contains the list of hosts that Ansible will manage. 
* It is a simple text file that contains the list of hosts that Ansible will manage.
* We know that Ansible is a serverless tool. So we don't need to install any software on the managed hosts.
* There are two nodes in Ansible architecture - Control node and Managed node.
    1. Control node - It is a server where Ansible is installed. It is also called as Ansible controller.
    2. Managed node - These are the servers that we want to manage using Ansible. These are also called as managed hosts.

* Default location of inventory file is `/etc/ansible/hosts`.

* We can also use any other location for inventory file. To use any other location, we need to provide the path to inventory file in the ansible configuration file.
  
  syntax: `ansible-playbook -i /path/to/inventory/file playbook.yml`

Syntax of inventory file:
```
[webserver1]
host1
host2
host3

[webserver2]
host4
host5
host6
```
* In the above example, we have two groups - webserver1 and webserver2.

* Each group contains the list of hosts. it is quite beneficial to group the hosts in the inventory file. because we can run the same playbook on multiple hosts at the same time.

* We know that to ssh into a server we need to provide the username and private_key as well.

* Full command for ssh into a server is `ssh -i /path/to/private_key username@ip_address`. where `-i` is used to provide the path to private_key.


```
[webserver1]
host1
host2

[webserver1:vars]
ansible_user=usernameofserver
ansible_private_key_file=/home/ansible/.ssh/id_rsa
```

NOTE: Ansible `hosts` file do not have any extension.


### To test where Ansible is able to connect to the hosts we provide in the inventory file, we can use the following command - 

  `ansible all -i hosts -m ping`

  NOTE: `all` is a keyword that is used to specify all the hosts in the inventory file. You can also specify the name of the group or the name of a specific host.

* These are called as ad-hoc commands.
* They are not stored in any file.
* It is used to test the connectivity of the hosts.
* Ping is an ansible module that is used to test the connectivity of the hosts.


## Overriting the python interpreter path 
In aws ec2 instances, only python2 is installed by default. So we need to overwrite the python interpreter path in the inventory file.

```
[webserver1]
host1
host2

[webserver1:vars]
ansible_user=usernameofserver
ansible_private_key_file=/home/ansible/.ssh/id_rsa
`ansible_python_interpreter=/usr/bin/python3`
```