# Ansible Modules

Ansible modules are the building blocks of ansible. They are used to perform a specific task on the hosts. Ansible provides us with a large number of modules. We can also create our own custom modules.

* These are also referred to as "task plugins".
* Ansible executes a module usually on remote server.
* And collects return value from the module.


## Some commonly used modules
1. `apt` - To install packages on ubuntu.
2. `apt - pkg` - to install multiple packages on ubuntu.
3. `user` - To create a user on ubuntu.
4. `debug` - To print the message on the console.
5. `copy` - To copy a file from local machine to remote machine.
6. `unarchive` - To extract a zip file on the remote machine.
7. `npm` - to install npm dependencies on remote machine.
8. `command` - To run a command on the remote machine.
9. `shell` - To run a shell command on the remote machine.
10. `yum` - To install packages on centos.

- Note: `command` and `shell` are similar. The only difference is that `command` does not support shell features like pipes, redirections, etc. However, `command` is more secure than `shell`.

## To get the list of all the modules available in ansible, we can use the following command -
`ansible-doc -l`

* We can also get the documentation of a specific module by using the following command - 
  
    `ansible-doc module_name`


## Ansible collections
* Ansible collections are the distribution format for Ansible content.

* It is a packaging format for bundling and distributing Ansible content.

* It can be released and installed independently from other collections.

* Eg - Docker collection to work with docker containers.

* These collections are available on Ansible Galaxy.

* `ansible-galaxy collection list` - To list all the collections installed on the system.

* `ansible-galaxy collection install namespace.collection_name` - To install a collection.