# What is an Operating System ?
Operating system is a software which act as an intermediate between computer hardware and user.

+ It manages the computer hardware and software resources and provides common services for computer programs.
+ However We can also manually manage the hardware and software resources but it is very difficult and time consuming. and this is the reason why we need an operating system. 

## Resource Allocation and management
+ Operating system manages the computer hardware and software resources and provides common services for computer programs.
+ Os swaps memory between programs and manages the storage devices such as hard disk, floppy disk, CD-ROM etc.

## Architecture of Operating System

1. Kernel - It is the core of the operating system. It is the part of the operating system which is always in the memory. It is responsible for the management of the resources of the computer. It is also responsible for the communication between the hardware and the user programs. It is also respons

2. Shell - It is a command line interpreter. It is a program which accepts the commands from the user and passes it to the kernel for execution.

3. applications - It is a program which uses the services provided by the operating system.

### Linux kernel is most widely used

## Operating Systems for Servers
* Most of the servers are running on Linux operating system.
* It is because they are lightweight and fast.
* There is no gui on servers so we have to use command line interface.
* cli is a tool which is used to communicate with the operating system. and is more powerful and fast than gui.

## linux
* Linux is an open source operating system.
* It was developed in parallel to Unix based os.
* We can also called it as clone of unix based os.

NOTE: As a DevOps Engineer, we mostly work with servers so we need to know about linux. 