# What is a Virtual Machine?
A virtual machine is a software implementation of a computer that executes programs like a real computer. 
A virtual machine (VM) is a software implementation of a computer that executes programs like a real computer. A virtual machine (VM) is a software implementation of a computer that executes programs like a real computer.


* They are used to run multiple operating systems on a single computer.
* A virtual machine is isolated from host operating machine

Earlier, software were used to run on virtual machines. But as the technology is growing, we are shifting toward containerization technology.


## What is a HyperVisor?
A hypervisor is a software that creates and runs virtual machines.
* It sits between the virtual machine and the host operating system.

EG - VirtualBox, VMware, Hyper-V, KVM, Xen, etc.
### working of hypervisor
1. Hypervisor takes hardware resources from HOST OS
2. Allocate those resources to VMs
3. It is ovbious that You can only give resources you actually have.


>> We saw that in this whole process, our hardware resources are shared.

## Benefits of Virtual Machines
* It is easy to create and destroy virtual machines.
* We don't need to buy a new computer for different operating systems.
* Used to test application that we don't want to install on our computer as it may have some malicious code.


## Types of Virtual Machines
* Type 1 - Bare Metal Hypervisor -  It is installed directly on the hardware. In this type, hypervisor is directly installed on the hardware and it allocates the resources to the virtual machines directly.
  
    Eg: VMware ESXi, Microsoft Hyper-V, XenServer, etc.


* Type 2 - Hosted Hypervisor - It is installed on the operating system. In this type, hypervisor is installed on the operating system and it allocates the resources to the virtual machines through the host operating system.

    Eg: VirtualBox, VMware Workstation, VMware Fusion, etc.